README.md, before:

# Project-Origin

## What Is Project-Origin?

Project-Origin is an OpenSource project to create a **[Federated](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1202.4503.pdf) Registry**
that handles **Granular Certificates** (GCs). 
The GCs purpose is to prove the origin and potential conversions of energy, thus supporting the green transition and power-to-X (PtX).

## Why Project-Origin?

If one searches for greenwashing, there is no shortages of articles on the internet showing a growing scepticism with [the current system](https://en.energinet.dk/Energy-data/Guarantees-of-origin-el-gas-hydrogen/) for proving the origin of electricity.

Project-Origin was created because there is a need to provide a trustworthy,
**publicly verifiable** way to prove the origin of the electricity one uses on
with a high granularity. 
The project aims to enable extended use of the implementation, to other energy forms than electricity alone. 


## Documentaion

To learn more [go to the complete documention.](https://project-origin.github.io/registry/)

Commit message:

Add information on trusted committer

README.md, after:

# Project-Origin

## What Is Project-Origin?

Project-Origin is an OpenSource project to create a **[Federated](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1202.4503.pdf) Registry**
that handles **Granular Certificates** (GCs). 
The GCs purpose is to prove the origin and potential conversions of energy, thus supporting the green transition and power-to-X (PtX).

## Why Project-Origin?

If one searches for greenwashing, there is no shortages of articles on the internet showing a growing scepticism with [the current system](https://en.energinet.dk/Energy-data/Guarantees-of-origin-el-gas-hydrogen/) for proving the origin of electricity.

Project-Origin was created because there is a need to provide a trustworthy,
**publicly verifiable** way to prove the origin of the electricity one uses on
with a high granularity. 
The project aims to enable extended use of the implementation, to other energy forms than electricity alone. 

## Need any help? 
In the registry repository, the Trusted Committer is currently @wisbech. The Trusted Committer provides timely support and mentorship for contributors, and helps contributors to shape their pull request to be ready to be submitted/accepted. If you want to contribute to this repository, the Trusted Committer has the mandate to specify any requirements that the contribution must fulfill on behalf of the partnership, to ensure product quality. 

## Documentaion
To learn more about the implementation [go to the complete documention.](https://project-origin.github.io/registry/)
