doc/architecture/verifiable_event_store/README.md, before:

# Verifiable Event Store

The verifiable event store container has the responsibility to store events as public date.

It arranges them in a series of merkle-trees, where each root is published in series to a blockchain,
this ensures it is tamper proof after the root has been published.

The container also has the responsibility to calculate MerkleProofs as requested by users,
so they can verify their data is part of the tree.

In future is should be posible to get all data stored, so one can follow all changes,
and verify no illegal operations is done.

![C4 component diagram of the verifiable event store](./component.drawio.svg)

## Component

### Batcher

Should be configured with parameter BatchSizeExponent, this is used with 2^BatchSizeExponent,
which defines the maximum size of the tree, escalating an automatic publish batch when events are added.
It is does as an exponent of 2 to ensure a balanced-tree.

When a batch is being publishes, a new batch to begin collecting events are created.

Hashing is done with SHA256.

## Endpoints

### 1. PublishEvent(VerifiableEvent)

Takes a VerifiableEvent to store in the merkle tree,
the batcher ensures that the EventId is Unique,
and in sequense.

```protobuf
message VerifiableEvent {
  EventId Id = 1;
  bytes Content = 2;
}

message EventId {
  Uuid EventStreamId = 1;
  uint32 Index = 2;
}
```

### 2. GetMerkleProof(EventId)

Takes an EventId as used in the PublishEvent,
finds the event based on the id, and calculates and returns a MerkleProof,
which enables a user to validate the event is part of the tree on the blockchain.

```protobuf
message MerkleProof {
  EventId EventId = 1; // id of the event
  bytes Event = 2; // content of the event
  string BlockID = 3; // Blockchain block reference
  string TransactionID = 4; // Blockchain transaction reference
  int64 leafIndex = 5; // leaf number in the tree, zero based.
  repeated string hashes = 6; // Hashes needed to calculate the root based on the event.
}
```

Commit message:

Review README.md
What does "all data" (l.11) refer to? The whole merkle-tree?

What exactly does the subtitle "Component" (l.16) refer to? 

Does "Batcher" subtitle refer to "InMemoryBatcher" (diagram)? Then consistent naming should be used, or define what it refers to in section following subtitle.

"BatchSizeExponent" (l. 20) not consistent with naming in diagram

"EndPoints"? (l. 24) What does that refer to?
 
l. 44-59: Does the GetMerkleProof not need the actual root published to the blockchain to compare with? Or maybe that is what it retrieves using TransactionID?

doc/architecture/verifiable_event_store/README.md, after:

# Verifiable Event Store

The verifiable event store is a container responsible for storing events as public data.

The event store arranges events in a series of merkle-trees, where each root is published to a blockchain. 
Doing so ensures that the data is tamper-proof after the root has been published.

The container also has the responsibility to calculate _MerkleProofs_ requested by users,
with the purpose of verifying that their data is part of the tree.

In the future it should be possible to get all data stored, so one can follow all changes,
and verify that no illegal operations are done.

![C4 component diagram of the verifiable event store](./component.drawio.svg)

## Component

### Batcher

The maximum size of the tree, $2^{\text{BatchSizeExponent}}$, can be configured by setting the parameter _BatchSizeExponent_. The tree size is defined as a power of 2 to ensure a balanced-tree. 'A batch is automatically published when events are added beyond the defined maximum size. When a batch is published, a new batch is created to begin collecting subsequent events.

Hashing is done using SHA256.

## Endpoints

### 1. PublishEvent(VerifiableEvent)

Takes a VerifiableEvent to store in the merkle tree,
the batcher ensures that the EventId is unique,
and in sequence.

```protobuf
message VerifiableEvent {
  EventId Id = 1;
  bytes Content = 2;
}

message EventId {
  Uuid EventStreamId = 1;
  uint32 Index = 2;
}
```

### 2. GetMerkleProof(EventId)

Takes an EventId as used in the PublishEvent,
finds the event based on the id, and calculates and returns a MerkleProof,
which enables a user to validate that the event is part of the tree, whose root is published on the blockchain.

```protobuf
message MerkleProof {
  EventId EventId = 1; // id of the event
  bytes Event = 2; // content of the event
  string BlockID = 3; // Blockchain block reference
  string TransactionID = 4; // Blockchain transaction reference
  int64 leafIndex = 5; // leaf number in the tree, zero based.
  repeated string hashes = 6; // Hashes needed to calculate the root based on the event.
}
```
